Hello everyone and welcome back to part two.
The basic tagging lecture in this lecture we're going to go over some basic heading and paragraph tags
and tags are basically a way to allow you to insert elements into an age HTML file.
And we're also going to be showing you a few resources to use as a reference as you continue learning
about Timo.
Let's go ahead and get started by opening our Adam text editor and a browser.
I'll see you there.
All right.
Here I have a split screen between the Adam and text editor and my browser and this is actually a view
we're going to be using a lot in the course because we'd like to see changes and not have to jump back
and forth between the browser and the text editor.
So a lot of times it seems you just have a split screen like this.
So I can just refresh the page in the browser when I'm actually doing edits in the Adam text editor.
But before we get started I'm continuing working with this basic study him L5 from The Last Lecture.
I don't want to discuss our two resources online that you're going to be running into a lot as you do
some Google searches for terms in case you ever need to reference some sort of resource.
And those two resources are something called W3 schools dot com.
And the other one is the developer that Mozilla the org Web site.
And here I have just searched for h tim l element tags on Google in Lotus at the very first hit is this
W3 schools dot com.
And usually when you ask Google for some basic question on H Tim L or C Ss a lot of times the very first
link that pops up is it W3 schools dot com and these three schools dot com is basically just a very
large reference site for a front end web development like a Tim elsea SS and Javascript.
And you notice that as you go through the Web site it'll basically just give you a bunch of resources
and references for a lot of the stuff are going to be talking about this course.
So if you ever Google stuff and you find yourself on this Web site feel free to check it out.
Now it's an OK Web site mainly the main reason you see it as the top hit is just because it's been around
so long that I would actually suggest that when you're Google searching and you come up with a reference
to this developer that Mozilla or excite you actually choose this site instead.
It's a little better.
It has more detail and it's really geared towards developers so if you click on this developer that
Mozilla org link it has an H Tim L element reference and this is basically a reference to all the HTML
elements and HTML elements are just going to allow us to actually insert material into our ASML text
file.
And you see here that it's a little more technical and it's a little more geared towards developers.
While the W3 schools dot com website is geared more towards basic beginners and as you advance through
this course you're probably going to find this developer that Mozilla or excite more useful to you.
So I just want to let you know that these are two resources you're going to be coming through in contact
with a lot as you do some Google searching on your own.
Ok now that we've covered that.
Let's jump back to this browser tab where we have the basic study T.M. file.
We've been working with last time open up here and I'm going to go ahead and open it up here and to
get a little more room on my screen I'm actually going to close or collapse this left tab here and I
can do that just by doing either control backslash or command the backslash on your keyboard.
And that just opens and collapses that little sayto.
So a really useful shortcut for the Adam text editor.
Now the first time we're going to be learning about are the header tags or a heading tag.
And let's show you how to do that to start off.
We'll do a heading 1 Ted or or one tag and basically we just have H-1 open and then H-1 close.
And then anything in between this any text is going to be a header Hetter So the say this is a roll
call on heading 1 and then I'm going to save this.
So just either control or command this next to that say then I'm going to refresh this.
And we see now on our Web page we see this is a heading 1 and basically a heading produces a larger
font that is bold.
And we're going to learn a lot more about how to actually dictate textiles such as font size whether
something is bold or italic.
Later on in the course we'll cover a little bit about and italics and this lecture but later on we'll
actually talk about more styling where the actual font.
Now we can just explore the very basics of age T.M. and what your browser does by default.
If heading one is too big for you while you can actually have heading to.
And you'll notice that Adam text editor actually provides us with these autocomplete options so you
can just go down here on your keyboard then hit enter on one of these and you'll notice we automatically
get the opening and closing tags so you'll find yourself using that a lot as you continue on through
this course and will type something like.
This is a heading to save that and then refresh our page here and we see if we get a same heading so
it's in bold but it's a little smaller and there's actually a heading three so we can do that it was
well we'll call this heading 3 save this refresh and we noticed we get an even smaller heading etc..
And this actually goes all the way down to heading 6 which is going to be the smallest heading possible
so notice that it's actually still in bold but it's very small.
If you use one.
Essentially what is a normal text size you can use what is known as a paragraph.
And that's just a Pete suddenly right.
This is a paragraph
what G.
Save this and then refresh.
And you if we get this is a paragraph which is just here normal text.
It's not in bold and we're ready to go there.
But something to know is that each of these lines with the new tags is basically in its own block and
headings are there own block as well as paragraphs so paragraph tax tags can actually create separation
and let me show you what I mean by that.
If I overhear in my mail file try to write on multiple lines so I say this is a paragraph.
This is line two then this is line three.
If I save this and then refresh this notice that I don't actually get that effect that I was looking
for in my team I'll file when it gets displayed in my browser.
It all goes into one continuous line.
If I actually want separate blocks I need to separate them into actual different tags which means I
would need to have each of these separate lines in its own paragraph tag.
So it had to have this be this is line to and then this one be line three.
So this is line three right here.
And paste it in and then grab this close antagonist's ticket back to the original right there.
Now let's save this and if we refresh this we can see that now they're all in their separate blocks
and something to note here is that your age T.M. file doesn't really care about indentation.
What it really cares about are just these tags.
That's what's really going to define how lines are built and how blocks are separated.
So I can actually put multiple paragraph tags on the same line here.
So we'll do this.
Put them all on line 14 just to show you what I mean.
So here you have all those three paragraph tags on the same line they're on line 14.
If I saved this again and refresh I get the exact same effect.
So it's really the tags that are telling.
H Tim L What is in the same block.
Not the actual line number or the indentation.
In other programming languages you'll use brackets Oren's Python you a lot of times use indentation
to clarify which blocks goes where NHT melts.
Basically all done by tags.
And you notice I can keep writing on separate lines here.
So whoops delete that.
Say something like this is continued.
I'm still writing in line to save this and if I refresh this you notice that since that's all contained
in the second paragraph it all goes here.
All right.
So that's the very basics of what a heading tag is and what a paragraph tag is.
Thinks there is that headings can go from 1 to 6 or 8 1 to 8 8 6.
And what makes them a little different is their size and the fact that they're in bold.
And then we have for normal text paragraph tags and something though the really useful is a lot of times
you need filler text and Adam text editor and Sublime Text Editor have for you is the lore ipsum statement
which is basically just a bunch of filler Latin text and if you start typing.
Laura I notice you get this little pop up here.
Go ahead and just select that and enter and you'll get a bunch of code or text here I should say.
And it's basically just a bunch of filler text that's really common to use in web development.
In case you just need some filler text so if I save this and refresh this page notice now I get wups
that tells me if I want to translate it no because it's in Latin but you just get a bunch of filler
text here in Latin.
So this is really common to use as you need filler code for your web development and you can do it just
by typing in Lorem and then hitting enter in either sublime text editor or an Adam text editor.
It works in both.
All right saving that there.
Well let's refresh this.
And I remove that glass thing I want to cover is bold and italics.
Now there is actually an old way of showing bold and italics in HVM L and there's a newer syntax for
it.
Let me show you the old way first and then I'll show you the new way.
So let me delete these paragraphs.
And just type in something very simple will say.
This is text that is in bold and then below it will say this is text that is in it x
x.
Ok so if I actually want to make this bold the old way would be to do it with a B call.
So what I would end up doing is wrapping this whole thing or whatever I want it to be bold in B.
So it would look like this.
So we call our closing tag be here and if you just type in B Adam text editor will also give you the
autocomplete for the bold go to save this and then refresh and notice here series says.
Now this is text that is in bold.
So this is the old way of doing bold text and the old way of doing a taluk text is with an eye call
or an eye tag.
So notice here we see eye for a taluk which means if I wrap this whole thing and open and close i tags
and save this and refresh it.
Now that this text is in a taluk here so we can see that this is text that is in bold and this text
is in a taluk So that was the old way of doing things.
There's a newer semantic way because B and I aren't very clear on exactly what they're doing.
These are just two letters and you always want to be really clear when you're coding especially if you're
going to come look at this code in the future.
So the newer semantic way of doing stuff is if you want text to be bold.
The new keyword for that is a strong tag.
So this works and it basically exactly the same way as the bold tag except now it just says strong.
So that might be a little clearer when you come back to your code that you know that it's going to be
in bold.
We see here there's no changes or refresh because that's just a new syntax.
And now for the Tallackson you syntax is E-M for emphasis or emphasized.
So if you want to add emphasis to text you would italicize it or with the new tagging syntax it's E-M
for emphasis so save this refresh.
And we see here there's no change because that still works exactly the same way.
So again the old way is with the B and I tags the newer way which is the way I would suggest doing it
as you go throughout this course is the strong tag and the E-M for emphasis tag.
All right.
That's really all there is to this lecture.
Hopefully you found it pretty straightforward.
Again you may want to play around with different headers adding more paragraphs etc. but everything
should have been straightforward.
Right now all we've covered is just a few basic tags such as heading tags paragraph tags and bulled
and Atomics.
OK thanks everyone and I will see you at the next lecture.